Welcome back.
Let's talk about our second sorting algorithm and it's called selection sort.
Now selection sort is again one of the simpler possible ways to sort a list.
And the algorithm works by scanning a list of items for the smallest element and then swapping that
element for the one in the first position.
Let me show you with this animation here.
We start with the first item and then the second item.
The red here signifies that it's the smallest item that it's seen.
And the blue is scanning ahead to find the smallest item.
So right now, eight is the smallest item, but we encounter five.
So five switches to the smallest item.
We encounter two.
So two becomes a smallest item.
We keep going.
Six is not smaller than two.
Nine isn't.
Three isn't.
We encounter one.
One becomes the smallest item.
We keep going.
We find zero.
So zero becomes the smallest item.
And we've just finished the list.
So now we move zero to the first index in our list.
So we swap it out.
And then we keep going back to the beginning, finding the smallest item.
Through the list, which is one.
And then placing that in the second index and we keep going like this.
Until we find the smallest item.
Place it next in the list.
Next in the list.
Next in the list until we have our list completely sorted.
As you can see with selection sought, we're still going to see a time complexity of o of MN squared.
If we look at the time complexity chart, we see that selection sort is not very fast.
Similar to bubble sort, we have those nested for loops but uses a space complexity of of one.
It doesn't really add any additional data besides the input.
Now, using the animation that you just saw, can you implement your own selection sword?
I'm going to leave this for you as an exercise using what you know from the bubble sort and what you
just saw for selection sword.
How you can use that information to sort the list using this algorithm.
And I'll show you the solution in the next video.